how is it that something as unconscious
as the matter of the brain can ever give
rise to something as immaterial at an
experience when I see a tree it looks as
if I'm seeing the tree directly that
science tells me something completely
different is happening light enters the
eye where it's absorbed by the retina
and it triggers electrical impulses
which travel down lower fibers to the
brain the brain then analyzes the data
and from that creates its own picture of
the world I then have the experience of
seeing a true
what I'm actually seeing is not the tree
itself but the image of the tree that
appears in my mind and this is true
everything I experience every sound
color sensation taste smell memory
thought they're all just images
appearing in my mind and it's not just
human beings that have it I often hear
scientists say that animals aren't
conscious but is that really so when I
see a dog lying on the floor asleep and
its legs are twitching and its nose is
quivering I imagine it streaming and if
it's dreaming is having an experience
and also why else we bothered giving our
pets anesthetics when we operate if we
didn't believe they were conscious why
would we want to make them unconscious
the difference with human beings is that
we know that we know we are conscious
that we are conscious with
self-awareness came a sense of a self of
an eye that is aware but what exactly is
the self this feeling of I that we all
know so well this is the second great
mystery of consciousness
to know what the self really is we need
to carefully observe our own
consciousness this is the path that many
spiritual seekers and explore they've
looked deep within their own mind trying
to find the essence of self and they all
come up with the same answer there's
nothing there no thing we can call the
cell this sense of a unique separate
individual self turns out to be an
illusion will be a very convincing
illusion on the other hand when we
discover what we really are we discover
this sense of being that's always there
underneath there comes a sense of
liberation does the realization that we
don't need to do anything in order to be
anybody with that the mind relaxes I
think what we knew today is an
integration about scientific
understanding of the world with the
wisdom that's held in the world
spiritual traditions
the next great frontier is not outer
space it's inner space research into the
nature of consciousness itself one thing
we all know for sure and the one thing
we've not yet explored